# Introduction #

Flex applications can often be larger than one might like.  It is extremely helpful to have a tool that can analyze the content of an application to answer these questions:
  * What are the largest packages and classes in terms of code size?
  * What library and framework code is actually linked into the application?
  * Which dependencies in the application cause library code to be included?
  * What actual lines in the source code contain these dependencies?
  * What opportunities exist for breaking parts of the application out as dynamically loadable Modules?

# What ItDepends Displays #

ItDepends works with an XML _link report file_ generated by the MXMLC compiler's `-link-report` option.  This file describes all the classes in the application and their dependencies and code sizes.

ItDepends reads this file, and displays a visual browser of an in-memory _linkage model_ that shows all the packages and classes in the application organized in a tree structure.  For each package/class the total code size is displayed.  Selecting a package or class in the main browsing tree shows details on the particular packages/classes to which the selected item refers, and the particular classes that in turn refer to the selected item.  This information is extremely valuable for understanding why code is or is not present in the application.

# Browsing Source Code with ItDepends #

ItDepends can be configured with a set of source paths, in which case double-clicking any class in the view brings up a separate code window that shows all the incoming/outgoing dependencies along with the source code of the class.  Within the source code, references to other classes are treated as hyperlinks.  This view is handy for browsing the source code in concert with the dependency information.

# Exploring Scenarios with ItDepends #

Perhaps the most useful feature of ItDepends is its ability to explore alternative linkage scenarios.  ItDepends can create a view of a hypothetical dynamic module to be loaded on top of the base application.  Individual packages/classes can be dragged from the base application into the module.  After such a change, ItDepends automatically adjusts the model to place as much code as possible in the loadable module if it is not required in the base application.  ItDepends thus allows developers to understand how an application's code size can be structured into Modules without requiring them to actually implement different modularization scenarios.

ItDepends also allows classes or packages to be simply deleted from a model.  This is useful for understanding the total decrease in code size achieved by eliminating particular parts of the code, which in turn removes some dependencies from the application and causes some library code to no longer be linked in.